This Vision Card outlines the context, problem and vision for your new project idea. The following questions will guide technical teams in providing ball-park T Shirt sizing for the proposal. 
If unsure, provide your best first draft — your Business Engagement Mobilisation Partner will help you refine this after submission.
 
Idea tracking information.
Proposed Title
Migrating WFM and Agent Hierarchy from Verint to AWS Connect 
Brief description 
A change to the 
AWS
 pricing model has forced VMO2 to absorb a higher run cost 
in order to
 unblock the agentic programme. This has resulted in 
a decision to escalate the migration of all Verint services into AWS Connect to maximise the investment. The consolidation of these services delivers a key ESA objective and releases 4.1M of 
spend reduction in 2027. 
What ID does your business unit or demand forum use to track this proposal?
TOP-860
What is the unique budget reference for the budget that is likely to fund this item?
Pending IC – 30
th
 April (exception from SLT to stand up project ahead of IC)
Which business division will be funding this proposal?
Consumer Transform 
Which demand forum or person within your business unit has prioritised this item as a candidate for investment? 
Abid Khan, Killian Faughnan and Nader Salaam
When was the priority of this idea approved as a candidate for investment?
If known, when is this planned to attend Investment Committee?
27/03/2026
List any known dependencies (if applicable) 
Leave blank if unknown
BPO partner reporting (Matt Nash model updates)
Is this an NDA’d project? If so, who is the NDA contact?
No
For admin use only
Date received by Business Engagement and Mobilisation (BEM) team
Vision has been reviewed with key architects / ESA domain owners?
Yes (approved by Howard Morgetroyd, Cameron West and Abid Khan)
Date approved for platform assessment by BEM
Stakeholders
Proposer
Isobelle Milgate – Product Manager, Enterprise Product 
Sponsor
Killian Faughnan and Abid Khan
Finance Business Partner
Matt Rigden 
Other stakeholders (Optional)
Only include if consulted to date. e.g., Legal, Regulatory, Insights, Care, Retail Ops. 
Role
Name
Technical Lead
Iain Truesdale 
Product Owner
Isobelle Milgate
Customer Care Lead
Kevin Price 
Context of your idea
Who is affected?
Define the specific customer segments, colleague groups, or business units impacted
Planning and scheduling teams, all internal VMO2 agents accessing the platform to review shifts / manage holiday requests, partner performance and compliance teams. Contact centre 
management teams (central hub) and data (reporting only). 
Which products or services are in scope?
Workforce management operations, agent hierarchy and quality management (decommissioning only). 
Which channels, processes or (if known) systems are in scope? 
Specify the channels, processes or systems involved today
Verint – managing and scheduling agents for customer service operations across telephony and chat 
Verint – agent hierarchy structure
Data – Reporting for all partner performance reporting including logged in hours, adherence reporting and bonus payments
Verint – Quality management activity and screen recording (only decom in scope of this project).
What is happening today?
Describe the current experience and known impacts (1–3 sentences)
Currently, the ESA has Verint as the solution for quality and WFM. This includes:
Scheduling and forecasting teams uploading schedules for agents and using this to track partner adherence for service coverage and partner management 
Quality management teams access call audio and screen recordings for quality management purposes (QM is in operational pilot already on AWS Connect so 
this scope will only need to cover any service transtion and decom. 
Verint is the SSOT for agent hierarchy which feeds data downstream to models which determine partner performance and remuneration. 
What is the problem or opportunity? 
Explain why the current state is undesirable, and what needs to change (1–3 sentences)
This project will move quality, WFM and agent hierarchy 
off
 Verint and into the platform where 
all of
 the agents operate already removing significant barriers to management
, data consolidation and risk of error. The high-level benefits in each area are:
Moving quality management – Supervisors, quality teams and partner managers will move from manual quality management 
on less than 1% of interactions to 100% of interactions through AI automation. This will centralise 
all
 the call quality analysis 
into
 a single platform (in line with the ESA)
 and apply automation at a lower cost to operate in AWS Connect than Verin
t and the manual outsourcing quality services. 
Moving
 A
gen
t hierarchy
 – 
C
ontact centre operations manually reconcile profiles between Verint and AWS where the agents operate
. This reconciliation also happens in the data team to achieve a clean data set. Moving to AWS Connect will remove 
both of these
 activities. 
Moving WFM activity – Due to product weaknesses, the adoption of Verint capability is low in the forecasting and scheduling teams
 today
. All forecasting is done in excel
 and uploaded and the scheduling is a simplistic 
function, this low adoption and high cost of Verint means we are not getting m
uch for our money. Bringing this into AWS Connect delivers the capability needed (scheduling) for a much lower cost. 
Total costs removed in 2027
 (cost increase in AWS Connect not included)
Verint – 2M 
Bill Gosling Manual Qu
ality - 
1M 
Intradiem - 1.4M
 
What new Outcome are you aiming to achieve?
What is your future vision?
Migrate all target services into AWS Connect by EOY 2026 ready to serve notice for the contract renewal date which is March 2027.
How does this differ from the current state?
See above 
Who benefits from this and what will success look like from their perspective? 
Planning and scheduling teams, all internal VMO2 agents accessing the platform to review shifts / manage holiday requests, partner performance and compliance teams. Contact centre management teams (central hub) and data (reporting only). 
Is there anything explicitly excluded from this?
The adoption of AWS 
automated 
quality management 
is underway in 
operations
 
meaning the build and roll out will not need to be included as part of this work. But decom and data retention for QM will need to be covered. 
In addition, the “AWS Connect” build elements will be completed by a specialist partner Sabio through the AWS MAP funding 
programme
 so this is not a VMO2 funded activity. Everything outside of this activity eg. Full 
programme
 wrap, business transition, service transition
, data
 work
 will all need to be delivered through TCS as part of this scope. This has been agreed with TCS and Sabio already. 
Are there any journeys, workflow, or screen mockups that illustrate or support this requirement? 
No, this tech is not 
cus
to
mer facing
, it’s all back end enterprise technology. 
What constraints or non-negotiables must the future solution respect?
All “must haves” must be available for WFM and agent hierarchy (this is available if needed) 
in order to
 migrate.
When do you want this to happen?
We mu
st
 have the technology built and tested by end of 2026 to gain confidence to serve notice on Verint in time for the contract end date of March 2027.
Why must it happen then?
See above. 
Does this have a value case yet? 
e.g. Have you assessed where and how much the value 
will be derived from this change?
High level case reviewed and approved by SLT, detailed review to take place with Matt Rigden team. 
What is the approximate revenue uplift / cost saving from this?
£4.1M in 2027 (including AWS Connect cost uplift from adopting new services).
High level Requirements
High level requirements describe what the change needs to deliver — not how it should be built. Use short, simple statements focused on capabilities, rules, or behaviors the future solution must support.  
If your requirement is on behalf of an external party such as giffgaff then your requirement scope will only cover the capabilities in VMO2 that support them. 
Guidance: 
Clear high‑level requirements help ensure faster and more accurate sizing
List the essential capabilities or features needed to achieve your desired outcome (e.g., “Customers must be able to…”, “The system must allow…”)
Focus on requirements, not solutions (avoid naming specific technologies or designs)
Include any critical business rules, data needs, reporting requirements, or compliance considerations
For customer impacting proposals you may wish to consider the specific elements of the customer lifecycle that each requirement impacts e.g. find/explore, buy/upgrade, pay/bill, getting started/use, manage, get help, stay/leave.
*MVP = These requirements must be delivered by the project to achieve the minimum viable customer or commercial outcome
#
Change / Requirement
MVP*
1
Produce the E2E solution designs for all services for security, privacy and architecture review. 
Y
2
Oversee full programme delivery including service transition, platform decommissioning and business transition
. Also ensure that the Sabio build activity
 (Sabio scope attached)
 on the AWS platform happens as part of the overall project plan. 
Y
3
Use the data schema mapping (completed by Sabio) to update all downstream data dependencies to maintain all 
business-critical
 performance reporting for the agent estate. 
Y
4
Decommission all Verint services 
(WFM, quality and agent hierarchy) 
and ensure all data retention requirements are met. 
All integartions to AWS Connect should be removed. 
Y
5
Deliver full end to end testing in conjunction with the UAT done by business stakeholders. 
Y
6
Ensure Sabio delivers to all “must have” requirements as part of the AWS build (see attached).
Y
What are your reporting or self-serve analytics (data democ.) requirements?
Existing BPO performance reporting must be mapped
 from the Verint hierarchy to the AWS one to maintain business critical partner remuneration reporting.
Y
5.1 Non-Functional Requirements (NFR)
A nonfunctional requirement explains the standards the solution must meet — such as speed, reliability, security, or ease of use — so that the experience works well for customers and colleagues, not just functionally.
Do you know how many customers or transactions there will be? 
Delete as appropriate
All agents on the platform (12k) + 
Response times or availability
There should be no degradation in platform performance 
during the transition.
Are there any security or privacy requirements? 
If unsure, select ‘unknown’
None over and above what is in place today
 for AWS Connect
Any legal or regulatory compliance requirements?
None over and above what is in place today
 for AWS Connect
Are there any Fraud requirements?
No
Accessibility / vulnerable customer requirements
N/A - not consumer facing 
Scope
All platform 
agents
 users (
10k B2C, 2k B2B) + support teams in data, quality, contact centre ops, forecasting and scheduling and partner compliance. 
NGN number ownership
N/A - changes will not touch NGNs
N/A
 What parts of the business are likely to be impacted?
Have you thought about how your requirement will impact key channels or operational units in VMO2? 
Guidance:
Say if you believe an operational department will be impacted by implementing this idea
.
Operational area
Impact?
How
CTO: Will this requirement involve changes to the mobile or 
fixed network or the services they deliver? 
e.g. connectivity, coverage, messaging, etc.
N
Will CIO or CTO operational teams need to change the way they support our services? 
Y
Platform support for Verint will no longer be needed, AWS Connect is already supported as an 
enterprise grade strategic platform for VMO2. 
Digital channels or App
N
Commercial and Product teams
N
Marketing and Sales
N
Shop and 
Basket
N
Retail stores
N
Care and Retentions
N
Billing, Payments, Customer Finance, Insurance
N
Logistics, supply chain and field operations
N
Other: 
Contact Centre Operations and planning 
Y
All their activity will move off Verint and on to AWS (see breakdowns above)
Supporting Information
Has any solution assessment been done? 
Include links to existing solution options, blueprints, etc. that may support T Shirt sizing  
No
Are there any other supporting documents or references 
e.g. Links to slides, customer personas etc
Sabio scope and minimum requirements for each phase of the WFM and agent hierarchy capabilities. 
For information: Next steps
Pre-submission checks
: An early conversation with your Business Engagement and Mobilisation (BEM) Partner is advisable.  They may suggest a simpler delivery route. They may also be able to support early shaping of your vision around technical capabilities.
Submission
: Once you have a potential sponsor, budget reference and priority from the person or body that prioritises demand in your division, please submit your draft Vision Card to the BEM team 
[Insert BEM team inbox here]
 
Vision card review
: A Business Engagement and Mobilisation Partner will engage with you to refine and clarify important details in your vision required to obtain the best early impact assessment. The BEM partner may drive conversations with key architects to ensure we obtain the most cost-effective recommendation ahead of sizing.
T-Shirt Sizing
: When judged fit for purpose, the Vision card will be submitted for platform assessment. This will lead to an initial T-shirt-sizing, and clear ownership of delivery between TCS and TechM. 
Mobilisation
: Further mobilisation tasks will depend on funding status, whether the idea is in the baseline plan, and future changes to the delivery quotation process that are TBC with the new delivery suppliers.